Good morning, Barbara, I'll get me.
Good morning, Mr. Brooker, please.
Nick Bazbane is calling.
Hold on just a moment.
I'll transfer to the secretary.
Thank you.
Mr. Brooker's office.
Hi, this is Nick Bazbane is calling for Mr. Brooker.
I think he's expecting my phone.
All right, hold on a moment.
Hello.
Good morning, sir.
How are you doing?
Hi.
How are you?
Good.
I'm sorry.
I thought we said 1130, and I just looked at you in letter, which I just received, which said 11.
So I hope I'm not late.
Oh, it doesn't matter.
OK.
It doesn't matter either way.
I just got the, thank you very much for sending that package.
You're welcome.
I didn't even have a chance to read it.
It just came in.
I'm sorry I couldn't find that speech.
It was a long time ago, and it's around somewhere.
That was given before the Kexton Club?
Right.
And that's in Chicago?
Yeah.
Well, maybe I can get it from there.
I'm not sure they ever got a copy.
There weren't a lot of copies made.
I'd love to get a copy of it.
I was surprised I couldn't find it because I thought I knew where it was.
In any case, we are very definitely going to talk about, as we agreed, your interest in this undergraduate prize, which you've established.
Maybe you can tell me what prompted you to take this kind of a route to encourage... I'm taping this, if that's all right with you, by the way.
Is that all right with you?
Sure.
You're going to let me read anything you say about me first, right?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Well, that's fine.
No, no, that's fine.
No, I think that's a professional way to do it, and that's just fine.
Well, I'd rather see what you plan to write.
Well, that's all right.
Well, we can talk about that.
Let's work.
The point is... Do you want to see... Well, I want to be able, if there's any quote that I... I'd like to see the quotes in context is my problem.
Okay, fine.
And have the ability to, if they're not in context, to put them in context.
I'll stipulate to that, sure.
Okay, fine.
I mean, that's my only point.
I have to think I've been burned by the press sometimes.
Well, I think I am.
I think you're a more professional project that came out of daily newspapers.
I want to get it right.
I had a collector, I'm sure you know who he is, and he said, I couldn't sleep.
What was the problem?
He said, I gave you two quotes that now I wish I could have back.
And I said, sir, let me tell you what.
I said, let me guess what quotes they are.
I said, we talked for two hours.
I said, let me guess what they are.
And I had the quotes exactly right.
How'd you know that?
I figured out the two best quotes that you gave me.
And no problem.
We talked a lot.
He said, you're going to take them out just like that.
I said, two quotes.
You're not going to make my book.
And they're not going to break my book.
You know, the book has to be a little more substantial than that.
So anyway, that's a lot of talk for him.
Can I ask you to hold for just one second?
I want to do just one thing that I've got to do first.
Just take a minute.
OK.
mail, get off the mail for too long.
Okay.
I was down in New York yesterday, had a couple of very interesting interviews.
This is going very, very good.
I'm really thrilled with how it's going.
Let's talk then about this undergraduate program that you started.
Well, the, I felt that there was probably, you know, in any sort of institution that's
high-quality research institution, you're bound to attract people with scholarly interests and interests in books.
And the University of Chicago has a library association program.
I don't think undergraduates take great advantage of that, although it's available to them, certainly.
But there's a membership fee, and that's discouraging to some undergraduates.
But the library has...
very interesting exhibits where they show parts of their collections, even other people's collections.
In fact, Louis Math from R.V.
had a show there on Budapest a year or so ago, his collection.
Yeah, a very interesting show.
So I thought there'd be some interest there.
And the objective of the prize was, one, to stimulate
competitions that people would think about in future years in organizing the collection to compete with the prize.
The terms of what the students have to submit requires them to submit the description of their collection in a fairly professional way so that it looks like there's serious intent to the collection and direction and
and ability to describe and understand what's in the collection.
And then the prize, I thought, was large enough to give them the opportunity to buy one or two important things for whatever they were collecting.
And so far, in the first year, I think it's been successful.
It's a winning prize of the young man who collected the Bocos and had quite a few of the first editions.
Dust jackets and everything.
Yeah, first Lolita.
He had some with inscriptions in them.
No letters.
I mean, he was clearly very serious.
Yeah.
Well, you know, described copy.
I don't know whether he signed them in department stores, bookstores or not.
That's right.
But it was quite an impressive collection.
And then they put...
The collection, the two winners on display, the university did a very good job publicizing it.
And I didn't serve on the judging committee or anything, but I think there were some 20 entries in each group.
The prize is open.
There's $1,000 awarded to the senior prize and then $500 for a sophomore.
And the thought being that, well, the sophomores would get a taste of it and they'd have two years to build up the collection further and resubmit something more advanced.
So the purpose really was to provide a long-term seed capital, so to speak, for collections to come back, seed capital in a way, so that the collections would come back to the university.
The prize also, you know, what I did was endow a fund, and only a portion of the income of the fund is awarded in prize money, and the balance is intended to buy books.
in the field of collecting winners, and they would have... Those books had been part of their prize, but given to the university right then.
So there was an advantage for the university to take an interest in the prize, too.
So I'm very pleased with the way that's going so far.
Tell me about this.
I'm looking for kind of a deeper motive, though...
Do you feel that book collecting traditionally is something that's an advocation for the more secure, shall we say, not just financially, but for somebody who's been around for, you know, 20 years into adulthood, shall we say?
Yeah, I think it's important.
You know what I'm saying?
You don't really see very many teenage or undergraduates.
No, I think it's something that begins probably at college.
It may begin earlier for some people.
It probably begins when they start taking literature courses and really make a decision of what's important in their life.
I think anybody can collect books if they make a certain number of sacrifices.
The sophomore who won had a fascinating collection of science fiction by a single author who wrote under, I don't know, four or five pseudonyms.
and he had doggedly pursued rounding up these books.
Now, those were not expensive books.
They were pocketbooks and so forth.
But the reason he won was because he was very selective and very determined to round up all the writings of this particular author.
Well, he was applying taste as well.
There was a focus.
Right.
And a dogged pursuit of book collecting.
That's the point.
He can play at any level.
That's what I'm...
I'm hoping that my book will appeal to the cross-section, which is why I'm going from William Scheide on down to some of these undergraduates, I hope.
You can play this game with $20 in your pocket.
That's what Howard Gottlieb said at Boston University Monday.
He started that.
You may have to give up a good lunch every now and again, something like that.
Well, but lunch is a passing thing.
A book is an artifact, isn't it?
A book is a permanent memory.
I guess it does take... You do have to make a leap, though, from the content to the artifact, don't you?
You are collecting the book as more than just something that contains knowledge.
It becomes an artifact.
I think very few...
people own books who don't read them.
Now, there's a sale coming up at Sussex.
I don't know if you've noticed it.
It's Tuesday.
Jeweled bindings, the Chevalier sale.
It's in December, I think.
Yeah.
Now, I don't know whether that man read books or not, but, you know, it was a collection fell in 15 years.
And there, I think it was just buying books as artifacts and not for content.
I think most of these young collectors are
are buying books to read them or because they have important texts which they may have read in other editions but they want the original text but I think there is a I've met any number of people who read the book you know the book is a conceptual thing but couldn't care one way or the other about collecting or pursuing first editions or rare association copies you know what I'm saying
There is for them.
It's the extent as opposed to the... Right.
And I guess if there's a purpose here, it's for the undergraduates to instill some kind of rate of respect.
I don't know.
I'm trying to reach for that of a sense here.
I think it's to sharpen a direction, maybe to sharpen a nascent direction.
And...
That's N-A-S-C-E-N-T for my title.
Okay.
So that maybe it's just that little extra bit of encouragement that would cause and become a bibliophile.
Again, we're not going to talk about your collection, but I think we have to say at some point how you came.
to establish this.
Oh, sure.
That's no secret.
I had won a collecting prize at Yale 25 years before.
So, well, actually, 1961, I guess.
Was Howard Gottlieb there?
You know Howard?
Howard Gottlieb.
division at Boston University.
He came over there in 1963 from Yale.
I guess he used to supervise, he said, that competition at Yale.
He has started one at BU.
His is open to graduate students, too, by the way.
Well, I think, you know, this graduate student is sort of a squishy category because you're people of all ages.
I wanted people to be more or less a level playing field there with the undergraduates.
I mean, there are people who come back as graduates, too.
Sure.
As, you know, as middle-aged people.
I think it's nice for undergraduates.
And I like the way that you offer one for a real undergraduate, you know, and a senior.
Yeah.
So you actually make it fair for everyone.
Sure.
Everyone gets two shots at it.
You get two shots.
Yeah, I interviewed one guy.
You know L.G.
Brodsky down at St.
Louis?
No, I know the name.
I know what he is.
He's a very interesting character.
He finished second in the Yale competition, and it brings him to this day.
What was his year?
He's around, he's in the early 60s.
He's about 50, maybe late 50s.
He's about 50, 51, 52.
Well, it was very competitive.
There were people who had really, and people would talk about it.
I mean, that was the thing at Yale that was stimulating.
The prize was something that students talked about.
They actually planned, they knew it was coming up every year, or every other year, I guess, was the same sort of formula.
And they would work on their collections.
Tell me something about your undergraduate collection.
That's exactly what I have now.
It was 16th century books.
You're kidding.
Primarily printed at Venice.
As an undergraduate?
Sure.
They weren't expensive.
They had them in bookstores in town.
I'd go to the Yale duplicate sales.
They were literally $25, $30 books.
Wow.
Yeah.
Again, it points out that just because a book is old and desirable doesn't necessarily mean you're going to have to mortgage your house.
No, no.
Not at all.
Yeah.
Winning that prize, what did that do for you?
Well, I think it was, one, it gave me a little bit of money.
Two, it was recognition.
It was a thrill of winning that.
It was a great pleasure.
And it endeared me, certainly, to Yale.
There's no question about that.
It's a key phrase, by the way.
Let's go back.
It endeared me to Yale.
I think that there is, and you hate to look for motives, and maybe that's the wrong word,
But so many of these schools, Brown, Yale, BU, UCLA, now they have these competitions.
And I think the idea is, number one, to cultivate the interest in book collecting, but also maybe cultivate a future benefit.
Sure, of course.
Is that part of the thing?
That was certainly my motive with this thing in Chicago, that I felt it was something that Chicago ought to have, just as Yale and these other places do.
See, things have changed.
The taxes have changed now.
The institutions are no longer the beneficiaries as they were 10 or 15 years ago.
The private collector is back.
The government no longer makes it beneficial.
That's the wrong word.
It really doesn't encourage the private collector to be as generous if you think that's true.
Oh, I think, I don't know how this tax will come out at all, but, you know, if it is, as it's now described, it's probably not going to affect people's giving patterns to money.
In terms of giving books, it may, in terms of giving money, because I think most people pay state and local taxes of 3% or more, so, you know, anything beyond that is a deduction.
So...
I think it made it more than a 3 percent limitation.
You may have run into this at Yale.
You've had them on giving books to an institution.
Without, again, without discussing specifically your collection, and I don't know anything about it, but you could probably give me a statement about what books B.T.
or B.M.A.T.
Do you think you could do something like that?
Well, sure.
I majored in literature, you know, French literature.
the Italian Renaissance was an important area of my studies and interest.
And the books really were all part of that picture.
I mean, they expanded.
You know, I felt they took me back to the period that was of tremendous interest to me.
And when you'd see a book of important texts, perhaps interesting ownership and early finding, you know, it was a...
It was like a work of art of the Renaissance.
They're still fairly good.
They're very immediate.
They take you back into a period that fascinated me.
I've just finished writing my first chapter of my book, and I have one scene there where I'm trying to explain why people collect first editions of rare books.
Of course, it's almost impossible to do that,
But when you hold, and I said, well, you know, you hold these things.
You commune.
Maybe you touch the creative process.
And then I described the scene.
I'm trying this out on you now.
I don't have the text in front of me, but I described the scene where I went to William Shady's Library.
I'd say where.
I'll come later.
Prince of New Jersey.
And at one point, he got up and withdrew this kind of clamshell box from a vault and put it down and opened it up and withdrew.
There's one of the volumes of the Mons Bible printed by Johann Gutenberg.
It said, here, hold it, feel where, type, bit paper for the first time.
Anybody who doesn't love books, who doesn't get goose pimples, something like that.
And it works.
I've read it to a few people, and it works as a scene.
Maybe this explains what these books do.
I mean, it's more than just having words on paper or a vellum or whatever, but am I describing the... Oh, absolutely.
The way of communicating with the past, very directly, I mean, very tangibly.
Communicating or communing, even.
Yeah, sure.
Because you feel it as much as... It's a tangible... I hate to use the word relic because I think it's still something of scholarly usefulness in...
You know, visually, intellectually, tangibly, you know, it's very immediate.
It's an immediate thrill.
Well, I think under the parameters that we've established, we've basically covered it, haven't we?
Yeah, I'm sorry to be limiting, but I just, you know, I have the same concern that some of your other people did.
Okay.
Can I leave the door open?
Sure.
Let me suggest this.
I mentioned I'm writing this piece for the New York Times.
My deadline on that is January.
the better because it's in my own publication.
But let's wait until that thing is published.
I'll make sure you get a copy of it.
Good.
And I think that you'll see kind of what I'm doing.
Great.
That's very kind.
And maybe we can, I'd like to talk again in any case, even if we're, you know,
I'm not in hiding.
I'm just concerned about too much publicity.
I would tell you, I'm pretty unspoken.
I think that you're being most kind and generous and out front, and I respect everything that you've said.
When I come on to people, I say, look, I want to tell you what I'm doing.
If you have any reservations, which is why I called you last week.
I didn't want to get you in the heat of the moment on the phone call.
Why did you think about it for a week?
You know, what's better for you?
Maybe I lose out in the long run, but I want people to want to participate.
No, I think you're working on a fascinating project, and I will read it.
It'll work, by the way.
Huh?
It'll work.
I went in an interview yesterday with Bob Abrams, Harry Abrams' son, and I heard that he was a collector.
It doesn't work out that way, but it is an interesting interview in any case.
But the first thing he said to me is, I only want to know is one thing before we talk.
And I said, what's that?
He said, I want to know how come we're not publishing this book.
A what?
I want to know how come we're not publishing this book.
And I said, Mr. Ravens, you'll have your chance.
There'll be another one.
Good.
Okay, take care.
Thank you very much, sir.
And I hope we talk again.
Okay, fine.
Bye.